#How data design works with Salesforce Marketing Cloud

> Salesforce Marketing Cloud allows subscribers data to be stored using a list based model for simple requirements and a relational data model for more complex requirements. The Marketing Cloud relation database can act as a database of record (DBOR) containing centralised storage of information about objects or people.

##Data objects used in Salesforce Marketing Cloud

Data objects in Marketing Cloud consist of:

1. **[Data extensions](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/subscribers/data_extensions_for_exacttarget_marketing_cloud/)** - are tables that can be used within the relational database in the Marketing Cloud account. Data in a data extension can either relate directly to the subscriber or contain information that is about a subscriber. Subscriber data extensions are sendable. Sendable data extensions contain a field that is mapped to the SubscriberKey. Data extensions contain fields which contain data.
2. **[Lists](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/subscribers/lists)** - are data objects that contain subscriber data. All lists belong to the master All Subscribers list in the marketing Cloud account. Different lists are used to segment data. Examples of different lists might include newsletter, offers and a special announcements list. Lists that are public are included in the subscriber centre with the option to opt-in or out of that list. Optionally lists can have properties which are used to contain data about subscribers.
3. **[Publication lists](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/subscribers/publication_lists/)** - are lists used with data extensions and the preference centre to manage if a subscriber is subscribed or unsubscribed. On an email send the publication list is used with the send. If the subscriber is not on the publication list then they are added. If the subscriber is already on the publication list and their status is subscribed then they are sent the email. If the subscriber's status is unsubscribed then they are not sent the email.
4. **[Suppressions lists](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/subscribers/suppression_lists/)** - are lists used with data extensions to control if the subscriber will get sent an email. Suppression lists contain a list of email addresses that will not be sent an email. Think of a suppression list as a do not contact list. 

##Data extension data retention

Data extensions can use [data retention](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/subscribers/data_extensions_for_exacttarget_marketing_cloud/managing_policies_for_a_data_extension/) to manage how data is retained or persisted within the Marketing Cloud account. Data retention options manage the period and what should occur when data is deleted. On delete either: individual records; all records; or all records and data extension are deleted.

##Data extension field types

Data extension field [data types](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/subscribers/data_extensions_for_exacttarget_marketing_cloud/getting_started_with_data_extensions/data_types/) include:

* **Text** - contain text characters and have maximum length of 4,000 characters.
* **Number** - contain integer in the range of -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,648
* **Date** - contain dates. Various formats are accepted. Valid date values begin after 12/31/1772 and before 01/01/10000.
* **Boolean** - contain logical truth values. True values include: `1`; `Y`; `Yes`; or `TRUE`. False values include: `0`; `N`; `No`; or `FALSE`. 
* **Email** - contain an email address in a valid email format. An email field must exist for a data extension to be sendable.
* **Phone** - contain phone numbers in a valid phone format.
* **Decimal** - contain a number with a decimal point. When a decimal is defined length settings are used to define precision and scale.
* **Locale** - contain an ISO language and country code.

##Data extension creation options

Data extension creation options include: standard; filtered; and random data extensions. Standard data extensions contain fields used to store data. Filtered data extensions are generated by filtering fields from a sendable source data extension. Random data extensions contain randomly selected subscribers from a source data extension. Additionally data extensions can be created from data extension templates.

##How to retrieve data from the relational data model

[Queries](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/interactions/activities/query_activity/) are used to select data into a target data extension. Queries use the SQL select statement. Queries can be used to overwrite, update or append the target data extension. When queries are used to update a data extension the target data extension must have a matching PrimaryKey to the query SQL select statement. SQL select statement support is based on SQL Server 2005 capabilities.

##When to use lists or data extensions.

Lists should be used where there are limited attributes requirements for up to 500,000 records. Use lists where import speed is not critical. Lists prefer simplicity over performance.

Data extensions should be used for where more than 500,000 subscriber records are required or where there are complex data relationships. Use a data extension if a flexible subscription model is preferred. Triggered sends and the SOAP/REST APIs require data extensions. Use data extensions where import speed is critical.

##How to import data into a list or data extension

The [import activity](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/interactions/activities/import_activity/) can be used to import data into a list or data extension. Data can also be imported into a data extension using the SOAP/REST APIs.

##Links

* [Data Extensions and Data Relationships](https://help.marketingcloud.com/en/documentation/exacttarget/subscribers/data_extensions_and_data_relationships/#How_to_create_a_group)
